10 years ago I tried what I thought was
the future of smart glasses but they
freaked a lot of people out they didn't
really look like normal person glasses
they had a camera on them they were kind
of creepy that way but even realities
who sponsored this video wants to change
that with the even G1 a pair of smart
glasses with a display in them and AI
functionality all this cool stuff in a
pair of glasses that looks dare I say
normal Sleek stylish oh so Vogue and
honestly those promises uh start right
away with the packaging uh this is a
Sleek kind of matte look to it uh what
do we got here put them on see what
matters and we got the quick guide here
spoiler alert I've already looked at
this because I've actually been trying
the uh even G1 for a little bit and as I
was saying the thoughtfulness kind of is
apparent in the in the packaging here
you bring that that was like a nice
little moment here's the glasses
themselves very Sleek looking case and
oh just a little peek uh this is also
the charging case we'll get to that I
want to see what else is in the Box
first we got accessories
underneath okay a very nicely coiled
braided USBC cable which is x amount of
meters long let's let's call it 4T ooh
feels nice and on this side we have a a
microfiber cloth for cleaning because
these are real glasses once again a
little bag of extra nose pads and
warranty and safety information here um
so let's read through together just
kidding Jake was scared there okay so
that's what's in the main box here but
we've also got an extra option that you
can add uh in the bottom here which are
sunglasses Clips they got a little uh
fade on them a little gradient do they
fit on my
glasses do they look good yeah actually
wow I mean that honestly goes to their
design philosophy here which is that
they're trying to create glasses and I
guess as well the sunglass attachment
that will fit multiple different shapes
but most importantly one that will fit
their actual glasses so these are the
even G1 themselves and you can see right
away what I'm talking about here I mean
if I didn't tell you that these were
tech product you might ask why why do
you have what are these doing here but
other than that they look like you know
they look like a nice pair of glasses
should I put them on
everybody so these actually have my
prescription lenses in them so I won't
even need to yeah by the way this is
what I look like with no
glasses I know here we go what do you
think am I a wizard but yeah the design
and feel of the even G1 is very very
premium it's got this kind of like matte
finish on the entire thing it's
apparently built with magnesium and
titanium Alloys so like the lenses
themselves are very rigid and strong
while the the arms here are a little
flexy so you get a little bit of give in
those which I appreciate they use this
patented screwless hinge design which I
very much appreciate as someone whose uh
other glasses I'm already talking about
them as my other glasses it's like a
it's like a loose door
this one's stiff which is like even more
frustrating I think so anyways this is
this this won't happen they also have
some water resistance to splashes and
light rain so that's nice to see but
having said that you can kind of like
feel the nubbin back there it's not like
a weight situation the reason that the
they included the touch pads and some of
the tech back here behind the ear is so
that the balance and the weight of it
you know is not really noticeable if
they put this stuff up front maybe it
would feel a little bit topheavy but as
oh I got an email from Linus which I can
see thanks to the wave guide displays
integrated into these glasses and that's
like one of the main things that these
smart glass companies have been
struggling with is a way to put a
display on glasses that doesn't make it
you know weigh the whole front of your
face down some of those other smart
glasses had this big chunky thing at the
top of the glasses so from the outside
it kind of looked like you might be
wearing smart like like regular glasses
but they would be out from your face
like this so the fact that there is a
display integrated into these lenses
very impressive the way you activate it
they have a accelerometer in here I
guess you can look up slightly and then
the uh dashboard will show up showing
you the date uh calendar event that you
might have coming up weather
notifications time and on the right side
is a section that you can pin a quick
note to and that is going to bring us
into features okay apparently the guys
can see the green LED from the display
right here so at certain angles people
might be able to tell that you are
cheating on the test or something so I
should clarify that unlike you know a VR
headset the display moves with you as
you as you move around so there's no
like
vr/ true like locking things in space
type of augmented reality the way the
display appears is like kind of a a
floating rectangular shaped space about
2 m away from you that shows you stuff
in green text it can go up to 1,000 nit
of brightness so it can deal with being
outside although using the sunglasses uh
helps a lot with that on a bright day I
mean driving here this morning wearing
these it basically looks like a heads up
display like in a fighter jet that which
I have been in many times they've also
got in the app uh some other stuff here
translate you can do live translate
we're going to try that out in a second
teleprompt they can display a script as
a video host that's a very interesting
uh option and there's even an even AI
that you can talk to by holding on the
touchpad on the right here and it'll
start recording it's listening to me
right now and I'm just going to keep
talking to see what it thinks about that
if you're looking for an AI powered tool
to record and analyze your voice in real
time here are some options you might
consider and then it gives me a bunch of
options when I use the AI it provides me
with a visible text answer and when
there's multiple pages that I can cycle
through by hitting the right touchpad or
close it by double tapping on the left
touchpad so that pretty convenient after
having used it for a few days I've
gotten used to the process there
something like a speaker would be a lot
more necessary in smart glasses that
don't have a built-in display but
because you can get the answer like
without even sitting through hearing an
AI being like here are the results of
your search it is nice just to have the
text there instead of having to sit
through that one of the most kind of
everyday useful features that I thought
was included here is the quicknote
feature so you can tap and hold on the
right touchpad and it'll start recording
a quick note you can say all sorts of
things to it I'm recording a short
circuit video right now about the even
G1 I have so many thoughts it's hard to
get them out it'll actually display kind
of a summary of that note if you put
your head up to see the dashboard
currently recording a short circuit
video about the even G butn have many
thoughts to express thank you that is
how I feel that's not what I said for
btim but you can once you tap into the
note in the app it'll give you the AI
summary here but you can also go and say
oh what did I actually say ah that was
the word vomit and give me the more
succinct version thank you I can imagine
that this would be very useful in
scenarios where oh you just remember
something that you have to get from the
grocery store so you just make a quick
note or you're working on something
creative and a thought occurs to you you
take the quick note and even if you your
thoughts are very jumbled the AI can
kind of summarize it for you now you'll
see me kind of like constantly looking
up over here to the left it's because
there's big lights over here so if I
look up and I'm looking right at the
lights the text gets blown out so
there's a dark section over here that I
can see it much easier and but it's it's
rude to you and I'm sorry also in the
app here at the very top you can adjust
the height of the display for where the
glasses you know sit on your nose um so
for where I have them right here I have
it near the bottom of the available
space but you can move it up and down
there's kind of like that this range so
like actually I can see the display in
that entire range I think when I first
calibrated this I was wearing the
glasses slightly differently because now
I can put them basically at the very
bottom and it's right in my field of
view so I'm looking at the camera and I
can see the text but also if you want to
change the angle at which the heads up
display activates at any time you can go
into the settings here and manually
adjust the angle so I'm just going to
put it at zero and then it should
activate just it just just be there it
went away and then I look up and it
comes back okay so that's great so other
than the quick notes the other kind of
everyday feature that I find very useful
is the notifications it will forward
notifications from your phone to the
glasses you'll get a little uh icon on
the display showing that you have a
notification then to see the whole thing
you can put your head up and read the
email like I did previously over here
you got brightness so you can have it on
automatic brightness or you can adjust
the brightness so that it's just super
bright all the time or lower or just
Auto which I like better I just figured
out that silent mode refers to being
visually silent uh so if you put if you
tap silent mode then the display will
just kind of turn off okay now let's
look at one of the less everyday
features potentially depending on your
situation translate it's got live
translating so when someone's talking
you in a different language you can have
the translated text of what they're
saying displayed on the glasses so
there's two tiers of the translate
feature translate basic which kind of
does sentence by sentence it waits for
the sentence to complete and then gives
you the translation and translate Pro
which will go more in real time like
word by word oh hi Oliver hey can you
say can you whisper sweet nothings to me
in Chinese and see if the glasses can so
this is just telling you that at normal
eye level I'm going to see the transl
ated text into English but if I want to
see the characters I can you know the
original Chinese I can look up to see it
it won't mean anything to me but the
options there okay
ready
Oliver yes my name is Oliver and I love
ice cream wait Bing chilling means ice
cream in Chinese yes
sir what's your favorite flavor of ice
cream what you want
choc I I love chocolate
this is the basic tier and I feel like
it the words are keeping up pretty quick
I'm I'm fairly impressed okay we're
trying and translate Pro now and Oliver
is going to speak French oh my
goodness Jess oh yeah my it said my
French is not very good but I try the
title of your
Memoir yeah so that was faster the words
were showing up as you were saying them
instead of kind of waiting but the
having said that basic is still pretty
good like I didn't really feel like I
was missing something big when you were
speaking in Chinese and it was giving me
full sentences now obviously that's
useful for people who are in situations
where people are speaking you know
languages they don't speak but I've also
seen people uh saying that they're they
find this feature useful for people who
may be hard of hearing speaking of
seeing words on the display the
teleprompt feature is as I said very
useful to a video host like me who would
be able to just read a script uh off
their glasses as weird as that is to say
you can either just make a new
teleprompt entry here and paste in text
like I did with this section of the
TechLink script or you can also import
uh files from your device so let's test
this out let's pretend I'm a TechLink so
you can have it so that the
teleprompting text only shows up when
you look up or you can just have it
always on you have three options for
scrolling the text in teleprompt mode
you have Auto which just will choose a
constant speed and just go with that
speed no matter what you have manual so
you can tap through the pages using the
touchpads and then AI which autof
follows the content based on your
reading and I'm just going to skip right
to that one because that sounds
interesting okay prompt me YouTube
appears to be testing Tik Tock Style
video swiping on long form videos on
their mobile app in what can only
rationally be described as their dumbest
experiment yet for reasons I shall
explain I'm going to stop now because
it's keeping up very well it's like the
words that I'm saying are graying out
and now it's confusing because I totally
went off script I'm breaking the AI you
can't control me okay wait if I come
back to the script will it know a
platform which recently started Autos
scrolling to a new video when the one
you're watching in full screen ends it
kept up okay just to see if the AI can
keep up with me speaking really fast I'm
going to go YouTube appears to be
testing Tik Tok Style video swiping on
long form videos on their mobile app and
what can only rationally be described as
their dumbest experiment yet for reasons
I shall explain their test causes the
swipe up action to scroll another video
into view as confirmed by an official
Forum post and was demonstrated in a
screen recording posted by tar meta on
Twitter a platform which recently it
kept up now the last main feature we can
see in the dashboard of the app here is
navigate now this focuses on walking and
cycling directions not driving uh which
I agree with because it's not smart to
you know try to get people to look at a
display while they're should be focusing
on the road operating a motor vehicle
despite that I did that this morning and
indeed it had some trouble keeping up uh
because I was going so fast I was taking
a route that it told me not to take so
it was like what are you doing but I've
heard others say that the navigate
feature is useful for their cycling
situations so take that as you will the
maps are powered by mapbox Maps but in
my experience you can still search and
find you know anything that you would
expect to find using other map Services
once you enter navigation mode it'll
kind of have a constant overlay at ey
level it's got turn right over here with
the distance until you have to do that
the estimated time it'll take you to get
there and a little mini map on the right
but if you look up you can see the more
complete kind of overview map of your
rout which is nice to kind of check that
and see whether you're going completely
off course overall I got to say I'm
pretty impressed with the functionality
that is baked into this like normal
glasses looking product like the even G1
that said I have a couple things that I
would wish to see the notifications for
one you can read the notifications but
there's no way to interact you can't you
know record a message to send back to
them and on that note for the AI I'm
really missing the ability to kind of
use it as an assistant in the style of
like Google Assistant where you can hold
the hold the button down and say send a
message to this person or what's my
battery percentage at so thankfully even
realities has begun open sourcing the
even g1's source code so Vel opers can
start making their own apps and adding
features tweaking things so hopefully we
can see lots of different new ways to
interact with these glasses in the
future laser
eyes just an idea so the even G1 uh one
of a very very small group of uh
products in the world right now that
integrate this waveguide display into a
totally normall looking pair of glasses
unless you look behind the ears because
of all that they are kind of expensive
they start at $600 for the
non-prescription version $750 for the
prescription lenses and then another
$100 if you want to add this sunglass
clip on join my Matrix team think about
it now if you're down for all of that
but you don't like the round glasses uh
even reties does have a square shaped
model that they say we be dropping now
but for me I feel like these look pretty
okay on my face and I think I actually
might keep wearing these for a little
bit they're my prescription just to kind
of you know be be even more distracted
than I am normally see how far I can
really take things thanks again to even
realities for sponsoring this video and
thanks to you for watching like the
video if you liked it subscribe to short
circuit if you want to do that as well
see you later